Make niches part of layout and expand call ABI (#153)
rust-lang/unsafe-code-guidelines: reference/src/glossary.md

#### Layout

The *layout* of a type defines:

* its size,
* its alignment,
* its field offsets (e.g. fields of structs, union, enums, arrays, ...)
* its [niches][Niche],
* its call abi.

Note: Originally, *layout* and *representation* were treated as synonyms, and Rust language features like the `#[repr]` attribute reflect this. 
In this document, *layout* and *representation* are not synonyms.

Note: due to discriminant-elision optimizations, niches are required to compute
the layout of, e.g., `Option<T>`, from the layout of `T`.

#### Call ABI

> The call ABI is how a type is passed *by value* across a function boundary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *call ABI* is how a type is passed *by value* across a function boundary.
```

Note: The call ABI is not stable. Currently, it is one of:

```rust,norun
pub enum Abi {
    Uninhabited,
    Scalar(Scalar),
    Vector {
        element: Scalar,
        count: u64
    },
    Aggregate {
        // If true, the layout size of the aggregate is exact.
        // Otherwise, the layout size of the aggregate is
        // a lower bound.
        sized: bool,
    }
}
```

> For example, the call ABI of `i32` is `Scalar`. The call ABI of `struct

Reviewer: `Scalar` of what though? That variant has a field.

> Wrapper(i32);` is also `Scalar`. But the call ABI of `#[repr(C)] struct

Reviewer: Maybe use `#[repr(transparent)] struct Wrapper`? And then say that for `repr(Rust)` the ABI is not guaranteed?

Author: The call ABI of `repr(Rust)` types is never guaranteed AFAICT, but the call ABI of `struct Wrapper(i32);` (without `repr(transparent)`) is "scalar", not "aggregate".

#### Layout

The *layout* of a type defines:

* its size,
* its alignment,
* its field offsets (e.g. fields of structs, union, enums, arrays, ...)
* its [niches][Niche],
* its call abi.

Note: Originally, *layout* and *representation* were treated as synonyms, and Rust language features like the `#[repr]` attribute reflect this. 
In this document, *layout* and *representation* are not synonyms.

Note: due to discriminant-elision optimizations, niches are required to compute
the layout of, e.g., `Option<T>`, from the layout of `T`.

#### Call ABI

The *call ABI* determines how a type is passed *by value* across a function boundary.

> Note: The call ABI is not stable. Currently, it is one of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: The set of possible call ABIs is not stable. Currently, it consists of:
```

* its alignment,
* its field offsets (e.g. fields of structs, union, enums, arrays, ...)
* its [niches][Niche],
* its call abi.

Note: Originally, *layout* and *representation* were treated as synonyms, and Rust language features like the `#[repr]` attribute reflect this. 
In this document, *layout* and *representation* are not synonyms.

Note: due to discriminant-elision optimizations, niches are required to compute
the layout of, e.g., `Option<T>`, from the layout of `T`.

#### Call ABI

The *call ABI* determines how a type is passed *by value* across a function boundary.

Note: The call ABI is not stable. Currently, it is one of:

```rust,norun
pub enum Abi {
    Uninhabited,
    Scalar(Scalar),
    Vector {
        element: Scalar,
        count: u64
    },
    Aggregate {
        // If true, the layout size of the aggregate is exact.
        // Otherwise, the layout size of the aggregate is
        // a lower bound.
        sized: bool,
    }
}
```

where

```rust,norun
enum Integer { I8, I16, I32, I64, I128, }
enum FloatTy { F32, F64, }

enum Primitive {
    Int(Integer, /*signedness:*/ bool),
    Float(FloatTy),
    Pointer
}

struct Scalar {
    value: Primitive,

>     valid_range: RangeInclusive<u128>,

Reviewer: This already encodes a niche, though...

Reviewer: But really I wouldn't add all this detail, that's just distracting.

Author: cc @eddyb - so apparently niches are part of the call ABI, at least for scalars

Author: I've simplified this a bit, but I'd prefer to remove all this detail. I would still to clarify the question of "What is Scalar" though. I can probably say "where `Scalar` is a primitive integer, floating point, or raw pointer to a sized type.

Reviewer: I'm all for removing the definition of the `Scalar` type.

Reviewer: Oh, you did. Great. :)

}
```

For example, right now, the call ABI of:

> * `i32` is `Scalar`,

Reviewer: You added all the detail and still don't say "`Scalar` or what" here. ;)

What about "`Scalar(s)`, where `s` encodes the size and signedness of `i32`".

> * `struct Wrapper(i32);` (without `repr(transparent)`) is also `Scalar` (only larger `struct`s are aggregates),

Reviewer: Given that you mention `repr(Rust)` below, I'd also write `#[repr(Rust)] struct Wrapper` here. Otherwise people have to know that this is the default to even make the connection.

* `#[repr(C)] struct Wrapper(i32);` is `Aggregate { sized: true }` - required by `repr(C****.

**NOTE**: the call ABI of `repr(Rust)` types is unspecified, so the "call ABI"
of `repr(Rust)` types is not guaranteed and `unsafe` code shall not rely on it.
That is, code that requires `struct Wrapper(i32);` to have the same ABI as `i32`

> needs to use `repr(transparent)`. f

Reviewer: The example list mixes some things that are guaranteed and some that are not. I don't think that's a good idea.

Also you have a spurious ` f` at the end here.

#### Layout

The *layout* of a type defines:

* its size,
* its alignment,
* its field offsets (e.g. fields of structs, union, enums, arrays, ...)

> * its [niches][Niche],

Reviewer: Where is the `Niche` target defined in the markdown?

> * its call abi.

Reviewer: This could link to the call ABI definition below.

`&mut T`, but this bit-pattern cannot be used by layout optimizations, and is not a
niche.

#### Call ABI

The *call ABI* determines how a type is passed *by value* across a function boundary.

Note: The set of possible call ABIs is not stable. Currently, it consists of:

```rust,ignore
enum Abi {
    Uninhabited,

>     Scalar(Scalar),

Reviewer 2: `ScalarPair` is missing.

Author: That's intentional. ScalarPair is an implementation detail useful for some optimizations that we don't want to guarantee it exists - right @eddyb ?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, it's just an aggregate that we pass around as two scalars *only* in Rust ABIs and within functions.
